---
title: Announcing SLSA v1.0 Release Candidate  
author: "Mark Lodato, Kris Kooi, Joshua Lock"
is_guest_post: false
---

Today, we are excited to announce the important milestone of a release candidate
(RC) SLSA Specification. This is the first major update to SLSA since its v0.1
release in June 2021, and the RC finalizes multiple revisions to the SLSA
specifications and requirements. We're grateful for the huge community
engagement that went into shaping this work.

We're requesting community feedback on the
[SLSA v1.0 RC1 Specification](/spec/v1.0-rc1) by **March 24, 2023**,
with a view towards releasing a 1.0 Stable revision at the end of March.

## What's changed

We reworked the SLSA specification in response to ongoing feedback, filed
issues, suggestions for course corrections, and other input from the SLSA
community and early adopters. The most significant changes are:

-   the division of SLSA into multiple _SLSA tracks_, which are separate
    sets of levels that measure a particular aspect of software supply chain
    security
-   many simplifications and clarifications throughout the specification
-   new guidance on provenance verification
-   clarification of the build model and provenance schema, with an
    accompanying v1 provenance format

### Tracks

A significant conceptual change is the division of SLSA's level requirements
into multiple tracks. Previously, each SLSA level encompassed requirements
across multiple software supply chain aspects: there were source, build,
provenance, and common requirements. To reach a particular level, adopters
needed to meet
[all requirements in each of the four areas](/spec/v0.1/requirements).
Organizing the specification in that way made adoption cumbersome, since
requirements were split across unrelated domains—improvements in one area were
not recognized until improvements were made in all areas.

Now, the requirements are divided into SLSA tracks that each focus on one area
of the software supply chain. We anticipate this division will make SLSA
adoption easier for users. Division into tracks also benefits the SLSA
community: developers contributing to SLSA can parallelize work on multiple
tracks without blocking each other, and members of the community can contribute
specifically to their areas of expertise.  

SLSA v1.0 RC defines the SLSA Build Track to begin this separation of
requirements, with other tracks to come in future versions. The new [SLSA Build
Track Levels 1-3](/spec/v1.0-rc1/levels#build-track) roughly
correspond to
[Levels 1-3 of v0.1](/spec/v1.0-rc1/requirements#build-requirements),
minus the Source requirements. We anticipate future versions of the
specification to continue building on requirements without changing the existing
requirements defined in v1.0. The specification will likely expand to
incorporate both new tracks and additional levels for existing tracks. We
currently have [plans](/spec/v1.0-rc1/future-directions) for Build
Level 4 and a Source Track.

The v1.0 RC also defines the [principles](/spec/v1.0-rc1/principles)
behind SLSA track requirements, which will guide future track additions. For
more information about the rationale for tracks, see the
[proposal](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-proposals/blob/main/0003/README.md).

### Simplifications and clarifications

We've organized the Build track requirements to be more user friendly by better
reflecting the division of labor across the software supply chain: **producing
artifacts**, **verifying build systems**, and **verifying artifacts**.

**[Producing artifacts](/spec/v1.0-rc1/requirements)** explains
requirements for the software producer and the build system. It corresponds to
v0.1's Build and Provenance requirements. We've renamed some requirements to be
more intuitive and have merged others, but the content is largely the same. The
only substantive difference is that we've removed the requirements that were
part of v0.1 L4 and the "build as code" requirement.

**[Verifying build systems](/spec/v1.0-rc1/verifying-systems)**
provides a list of prompts for evaluating a build system's SLSA conformance.
Some content comes from v0.1's Common requirements; the rest is new to v1.0.

**[Verifying artifacts](/spec/v1.0-rc1/verifying-artifacts)**
provides guidance to package ecosystems and consumers for how to verify
provenance and compare it to expectations. It is discussed more in the following
section.

### Verification

Another significant change in the v1.0 RC is documenting the need for provenance
verification.

SLSA v0.1 specified guidance for how to produce provenance but not how to verify
it. This left a large gap—most threats targeted by SLSA are only mitigated by
verifying provenance and comparing it to expectations.

SLSA v1.0 RC addresses this gap by providing more explicit guidance on how to
verify provenance. This is split between establishing trust in build systems
themselves versus establishing trust in artifacts produced by those build
systems. Build systems implement the requirements around isolation and
provenance generation, and consumers choose whether to trust those build
systems. Once that trust is established, consumers or package managers can
verify artifacts by comparing the provenance to expectations for the package in
question.

Ecosystems are already creating verification tooling, such as [npm's forthcoming
SLSA support](https://github.com/github/roadmap/issues/612). Tooling for
organizations that need to protect first-party software is also available, such
as [slsa-verifier](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-verifier).

### Provenance format

The SLSA v1.0 RC simplifies SLSA's build model and makes corresponding changes
to the specification and provenance format.

A major source of confusion for SLSA v0.1 was how to model a build and represent
it in provenance. The v0.1 spec and v0.x provenance formats were overly rigid
about a build's inputs, differentiating between "source", "build config", "entry
point", and so on. Many implementers found that their build systems did not
clearly fit into this model, and the intent of each field was not clear.
Furthermore, provenance requirements were described both abstractly in the SLSA
specification and concretely in the provenance format, using different language.
Implementers needed to jump back and forth and mentally map one concept to
another.

SLSA v1.0 and the accompanying [provenance v1
format](/provenance/v1-rc1) attempt to address this confusion by
simplifying the model and aligning terminology between the two. The main change
is to represent all "external parameters" that are exposed to the build system's
users, instead of differentiating between various inputs. Now, you can represent
arbitrary parameters, as long as it is possible to compare these parameters to
expectations. Other parts of the provenance format were renamed, though
conceptually most concepts translate from the old format to the new format. For
a detailed list of changes, see [provenance change
history](/provenance/v1-rc1#change-history).

## Request for feedback

Please [open an issue](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/issues) to discuss
feedback on the RC by March 24, 2023. We particularly welcome comments in
response to the following questions:

-   Does the new specification clarify SLSA's benefits for supply chain
    security?
-   Is the specification unambiguous on how to carry out requirements?
-   Is there feedback on the provenance verification guidance?
-   Are there suggestions to improve the division into multiple tracks?
-   Are the updated build model and provenance format easily understood?
-   Is there any remaining feedback on what may be missing?

We appreciate everyone who has contributed to the project and all the early
adopters who have provided valuable feedback. Thank you to the SLSA community!
