---
title: Announcing SLSA v1.1 Release Candidate 2
author: "SLSA Community"
is_guest_post: false
---

Since the publication of [SLSA 1.0](/spec/v1.0/) back in April 2023, the
SLSA specification community has been busy developing several new tracks
covering areas such as source and build environment but other improvements
were made to the specification that were deemed worth publishing without
waiting for those additions.

To that end [SLSA Version 1.1 Release Candidate 1 (RC1)](/spec/v1.1-rc1/)
was published in August 2024. Shortly afterwards, an astute reader pointed
out that the new threat model page had several unfinished sections, which
forced us to go through another round of edits. While this took longer than
we had anticipated (mostly due to the fact that the main contributors were
focusing on developing the new tracks), we are pleased to announce that
[Version 1.1 RC2](/spec/v1.1-rc2/) is now available for review.

This new version brings several changes aimed at enhancing the clarity and
usability of the specification. In particular, this update brings several
refinements to the threat model and possible mitigations, some
clarification to the role of attestation format schemas, a procedure for
verifying Verification Summary Attestations (VSA), provision to add
verifier metadata into the VSA format, and a recommendation to use
cryptographic digests in VSA policies. Please, refer to the [What's
new](/spec/v1.1-rc2/whats-new) section for further details.

It is worth noting that none of the changes brought in SLSA 1.1 affect the
compliance of an existing SLSA 1.0 implementation.

The SLSA specification follows the [Community Specification] lifecycle
going through several [stages of maturation](/spec-stages). The publication
of a candidate for [Approved Specification] starts a 2 week review period
during which the community at large is invited to review the draft and
raise any issues. If you do find any issue, please, open an issue on
[GitHub]. If no major issues are found during this review period the V1.1
RC2 draft will then be published as Version 1.1, the new [Approved
Specification], effectively replacing Version 1.0.

[Community Specification]: https://github.com/CommunitySpecification/Community_Specification/blob/main/
[GitHub]: https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/issues
[backlog]: https://github.com/orgs/slsa-framework/projects/1/views/1
[Approved Specification]: /spec-stages#approved
