---
title: SLSA v1.1 is now Approved!
author: "SLSA Community"
is_guest_post: false
---

Today we’re releasing [SLSA Version 1.1](/spec/v1.1/) as the latest 
[Approved Specification] of SLSA, effectively replacing Version 1.0.

Following the [Community Specification] lifecycle, the [SLSA v1.1 Release
Candidate 2](/spec/v1.1-rc2/) specification went through a 2-week review
period during which no major issues were raised. As a result, [SLSA
v1.1](/spec/v1.1/) is now being published as an [Approved Specification].

This release brings several changes aimed at enhancing the clarity and
usability of the v1.0 specification. It also introduces
backwards-compatible clarifications to the SLSA threat model, attestation
model and verification procedure. This includes the addition of verifier
metadata to the Verification Summary Attestation (VSA) format. Please,
refer to the [What's new](/spec/v1.1/whats-new) section for further
details.

SLSA 1.1 is backwards compatible with SLSA 1.0.

So what’s next? The SLSA specification group has been busy developing
several new tracks covering areas, such as source and build environment,
which can be found in the [SLSA Working Draft](/spec/draft/). Although
nothing is guaranteed these may be published as part of the next version of
SLSA. You're invited to [join the group](/community) if any of this is of
interest to you.

[Community Specification]: https://github.com/CommunitySpecification/Community_Specification/blob/main/
[GitHub]: https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/issues
[backlog]: https://github.com/orgs/slsa-framework/projects/1/views/1
[Approved Specification]: /spec-stages#approved
