---
title: SLSA Verification Summary Attestation (VSA)
layout: standard
hero_text: Verification summary attestations communicate that an artifact has been verified at a specific SLSA level and details about that verification.
---
<details class="mt-12">
<summary>Note about 0.x versions</summary>

We expect regular iteration on 0.x versions until 1.0. During 0.x, we lean
towards smaller, faster releases in order to get earlier feedback on the design.
After 1.0, we will limit the frequency of breaking changes.

To make this manageable, we recommend that:

-   Generators choose the latest 0.x version at the time of implementation and
    then stick with that until 1.0 unless there is reason to upgrade before then.
-   Consumers accept all known versions and convert internally between them.

</details>

<div class="mt-16 mb-4">

## Purpose

</div>

Describe what SLSA level an artifact or set of artifacts was verified at
and other details about the verification process including what SLSA level
the dependencies were verified at.

<div class="mt-16 mb-4">

## Prerequisite

</div>

Understanding of SLSA [Software
Attestations](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/blob/main/controls/attestations.md),
[SLSA Provenance](https://slsa.dev/provenance), and the larger
[in-toto attestation] framework.

<div class="mt-16 mb-4">

## Model

</div>

A Verification Summary Attestation (VSA) is an attestation that some entity
(`verifier`) verified one or more software artifacts (the `subject` of an
in-toto attestation [Statement]) by evaluating the artifact and a `bundle`
of attestations against some `policy`.  Users who trust the `verifier` may
assume that the artifacts met the indicated SLSA level without themselves
needing to evaluate the artifact or to have access to the attestations the
`verifier` used to make its determination.

The VSA also allows consumers to determine the minimum verified level of
all of an artifact’s _transitive_ dependencies.  The verifier does this by
either a) verifying the provenance of each non-source dependency listed in
the [materials](https://slsa.dev/provenance/v0.2#materials) of the artifact
being verified (recursively) or b) matching the non-source dependency
listed in `materials` (by subject.digest == materials.digest and, ideally,
subject.name == materials.uri) to a VSA _for that dependency_ and taking
the `min(vsa.policy_level, vsa.minimum_dependency_level`).  Policy
verifiers wishing to establish minimum requirements on dependencies SLSA
levels may use vsa.minimum_dependency_level to do so.

Since dependency graphs can be quite complex a policy verifier may wish to
require a default SLSA level X for all dependencies but allow for explicit
exceptions that have level < X.  This allows progress to be made without
being held back by a handful of ‘stubborn’ dependencies.  Verifiers
indicate these exceptions using `vsa.minimum_downgrade_dependency_level`.

<div class="mt-16 mb-4">

## Schema

</div>

```
// Standard attestation fields:
"_type": "https://in-toto.io/Statement/v0.1",
"subject": [{
  "name": <artifact-URI-in-request>,
  "digest": { <digest-in-request> }
}],

// Predicate
"predicateType": "https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v0.1",
"predicate": {
  // Required
  "verifier": {
    "id": "<URI>"
    }
  "time_verified": <TIMESTAMP>
  "policy": "<URI>",
  "verification_result": "<PASSED|FAILED>",
  "policy_level": "<SlsaResult>",
  "minimum_dependency_level": "<SlsaResult>",
  "minimum_downgrade_dependency_level": "<SlsaResult>"
}
```
<div class="mt-8 mb-4">

### Parsing rules

</div>

This predicate follows the in-toto attestation [parsing rules]. Summary:

-   Consumers MUST ignore unrecognized fields.
-   The predicateType URI includes the major version number and will always
    change whenever there is a backwards incompatible change.
-   Minor version changes are always backwards compatible and "monotonic." Such
    changes do not update the predicateType.
-   Producers MAY add extension fields using field names that are URIs.

<div class="mt-8 mb-4">

### Fields

</div>

_NOTE: This section describes the fields within predicate. For a description
of the other top-level fields, such as subject, see [Statement]._

<a id="verifier"></a>
verifier _object, required_

> Identifies the entity that performed the verification.
>
> The identity MUST reflect the trust base that consumers care about. How
> detailed to be is a judgment call.
>
> Consumers MUST accept only specific (signer, verifier) pairs. For example,
> "GitHub" can sign provenance for the "GitHub Actions" verifier, and "Google"
> can sign provenance for the "Google Cloud Deploy" verifier, but "GitHub" cannot
> sign for the "Google Cloud Deploy" verifier.
>
> The field is required, even if it is implicit from the signer, to aid readability and
> debugging. It is an object to allow additional fields in the future, in case one
> URI is not sufficient.

<a id="verifier.id"></a>
verifier.id _string ([TypeURI]), required_

> URI indicating the verifier’s identity.

<a id="time_verified"></a>
time_verified _string ([Timestamp]), required_

> Timestamp indicating what time the verification occurred.

<a id="policy"></a>
policy _string ([TypeURI]), required_

> The URI of the policy that was used to verify this artifact.

<a id="verification_result"></a>
verification_result _string, required_

> Either “PASSED” or “FAILED” to indicate if the artifact passed or failed the policy verification.

<a id="policy_level"></a>
policy_level _string ([SlsaResult]), required_

> Indicates what SLSA level the artifact itself (and not its dependencies) was verified at or "FAILED" if policy verification failed.

<a id="minimum_dependency_level"></a>
minimum_dependency_level _string ([SlsaResult]), optional_

> The minimum verified SLSA level of all the artifacts _transitive_ dependencies excluding any
> dependencies that have been explicitly downgraded to a lower acceptable level in the policy.
> Absence indicates no evaluation of dependencies has taken place.

<a id="minimum_downgrade_dependency_level"></a>
minimum_downgrade_dependency_level _string ([SlsaResult]), optional_

> The minimum verified SLSA level of all the artifacts _transitive_ dependencies that have
> been explicitly downgraded by a policy.
> Absence indicates no evaluation of dependencies has taken place.

<div class="mt-16 mb-4">

## Example

</div>

WARNING: This is just for demonstration purposes.

```
"_type": "https://in-toto.io/Statement/v0.1",
"subject": [{
  "name": "https://example.com/example-1.2.3.tar.gz",
  "digest": {"sha256": "5678..."}
}],

// Predicate
"predicateType": "https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v0.1",
"predicate": {
  "verifier": {
    "id": "https://example.com/publication_verifier"
    }
  "time_verified": "1985-04-12T23:20:50.52Z"
  "policy": "https://example.com/example_tarball.policy",
  "verification_result": "PASSED",
  "policy_level": "SLSA_LEVEL_3",
  "minimum_dependency_level": "SLSA_LEVEL_2",
  "minimum_downgrade_dependency_level": "SLSA_LEVEL_1"
}
```

<a id="slsaresult"></a>
## _SlsaResult (String)_
The result of evaluating an artifact (or set of artifacts) against SLSA.
Must be one of these values:

* SLSA_LEVEL_0
* SLSA_LEVEL_1
* SLSA_LEVEL_2
* SLSA_LEVEL_3
* SLSA_LEVEL_4
* FAILED (Indicates policy evaluation failed)


## Change history

</div>
-   0.1: Initial version.

[SlsaResult]: #slsaresult
[DigestSet]: https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/field_types.md#DigestSet
[ResourceURI]: https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/field_types.md#ResourceURI
[Statement]: https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/README.md#statement
[Timestamp]: https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/field_types.md#Timestamp
[TypeURI]: https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/field_types.md#TypeURI
[in-toto attestation]: https://github.com/in-toto/attestation
[parsing rules]: https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/README.md#parsing-rules

